So you are gonna need Rust, you're gonna
need Golang because I can't help but
to throw every language I can
possibly use into any project.
So installing Rust is incredibly simple,
you Google install Rustlang it's
gonna take you to a shell script.
You're gonna take that copy it, probably
give it pseudo privileges because you know
scripts from the internet should always
just be installed at freewill, and
there you go.
And then same thing with Golang.
You literally, Google install Golang,
and you'll be able to install Golang.
Make sure you're at least at version
1.2.1 or higher, very important, okay?
Rust has been mentioned.
We haven't mentioned HTMX yet,
but we're doing pretty good.
Please at least get the latest version
of Node or something pretty late,
just 20 something that's good enough.
Just be in the 20s because each node
version will have vastly different
experiences.
One thing I was kind of doing at work is
I had to iterate over very large sections
of data for my job, and it was in node.
And when I used node 18 versus node 20,
there was like a several seconds
difference for using for
each as opposed to a for
loop going over millions of rows of data.
And so can things be different
between versions of node?
Absolutely.
So we're gonna all try to be on
the same-ish version, at least hopefully
the mostly the same, I don't know the last
time I've updated my node 20, but
it was probably a month ago so
be close enough.
And then lastly here's really the only
thing you're gonna really wanna copy and
pasta from this, there'll be
probably one or two other ones,
which is all of this right here.
That's really the only thing you're
gonna wanna have on your system.
You're gonna just wanna clone this out
however you want and wherever you want.
So I'll do literally the exact same thing.
I'm gonna take all of that information and
I'm just gonna clone it out.
It's gonna build some Rust
that takes a long time.
My fan might start spinning here shortly.
There it goes.
We're building.
You can tell we're doing something.
Did you guys hear that Rust recently
was adopted fully by Microsoft?
>> Not fully.
>> Yeah,
they're like really going all in on it.
They've decided to really invest millions
of dollars, hire many Rust engineers.
It's official.
The amount of Rust jobs
have doubled in 2023.
We're up to well over 21 positions.
Not more than 23, but
it's really starting to happen.
It's happening right now.
So I'm gonna give everybody a few moments
to be able to get Rust installed,
to be able to get Golang installed,
node version on the latest.
There's a couple things he got to do,
so make sure it all happens.
And then, of course,
you want it all built and everything.
And if you use Neovim,
obviously bonus points,
it does make your project 20%
faster just using Neovim.
Vim is only like 10% vast or so.
Sorry, yes?
>> Is today's course gonna
be mainly focused on Node?
>> Well, we'll be using Node
as our running platform and
running everything off of.
We won't be running in the browser,
and we won't be running Bun.
Bun is obviously much different.
The tools aren't as much mature.
Maybe in a year could do something fun
with going over all the Bun tools and
all that.
The goal of today's course is to use
the tools that are easily available in
Chrome to be able to
identify bottlenecks and
be able to try to make good
performance changes in your code base.
Because obviously there's better and
more in-depth tools being one of the most
in-depth tools possible, but
it's not as easy to set up, right?
Right now, I have to run perf
through a Docker container because
I can't currently even get
it to work on just my OS.
So I'm running things through an entire
roundabout way to get something to run.
So it's not always just
the easiest to use, and so
I didn't really wanna include anything
that's gonna have a lot of setup time, and
which is gonna cause people to kind of
fall off and not be able to follow along.
So there you go, yeah?
>> What level of JavaScript are you gonna
need to know in order to do this course?
>> All right, so
what level of JavaScript are you
gonna need to know to do this course?
Just basic proficiency.
That's all you really,
if you understand how functions and
classes work,
you know how you can pass them around,
you can just use them normally,
then yes, that's enough.
Like, I'm not gonna expect you to
know every single array method.
We're not gonna be going
over meticulously.
Again, I don't like those kinds of
optimizations, like don't use push, use X.
It's like, yeah, that only makes sense
when there's a real problem with it.
And that's usually not
because of the function,
that's because of what
the function is doing.
And so push versus setting
length by minus one, that's not,
you're doing the same
operation just differently.
You're not changing the problem.
You're just changing how
you're invoking the problem.
So, if that makes sense.
You don't need a ton of JavaScript,
but you should be pretty good at it.
You should be comfortable
writing JavaScript.
All right, so two quick things.
It's not really two quick things.
It'll be about seven quick things.
We're gonna be doing optimization
step by step and independently for
the first couple, and then we're gonna
kind of figure out where the value is,
what's going on with each change.
We're also gonna be using
local host to test.
Local host has its
obvious problems with it.
It's never gonna quite
look like the real world.
Your operating system does things that are
gonna probably be very different than if
you're getting Internet packets
versus from yourself packets.
It can still be used to do some testing,
but it's not gonna quite
be the real world.
Obviously, whenever you're doing any, you
know, performance optimizations, though,
it should be bared out in the real world.
You should be able to measure this.
You should be able to understand it,
whatever way you collect data, and
understand how fast your
endpoints are going.
You should see real impacts because
if you only see it locally, but
you don't see in production, it just
means you didn't really make any change.
That's worthwhile.
It doesn't mean that change won't be
worthwhile at some point, it just may
not be worthwhile at the time, just due to
how it works locally versus in production.
And second off,
we're gonna all get different results.
We're all running on different computers.
I will get different results than I
did yesterday running these things.
And so, I tried not to put any
hard numbers in this presentation,
because depends on how many
programs I'm gonna be running.
I wasn't planning on running
this website locally, well,
I'm currently running it locally.
So, I don't know what
that does to performance.
I don't know what that does.
I also have a LSP running right now, or
two, or three or four LSPs running, so
I have no idea how that's gonna
affect measuring performance.
So in general,
measuring locally has that effect as well
as you're not on an isolated system.
You're not on a system
that's just doing one thing.
You're on a system that's doing,
who knows amount of items.
So you can't, it's very hard to
reproduce the same thing twice.
But it's very obvious when you've made a
substantial improvement in the direction,
because even though the numbers may vary,
the results keep showing some
same proportional movement.
So just some things to think about.
I also have two three monitors.
I never have three monitors.
I have this one, this one and this one
over here, and I don't ever have 4k going.
So how does that affect it?
I have no idea.
And again, no micro benchmarks.
We already talked about this ridiculous,
all right?
I'm also not very good at planning.
So every single step of the way,
every single change we're gonna make all
the optimizations will be available
in branches first off, second off and
third off.
So you'll be able to kind of follow along,
so
if you can't quite get one to work
locally, can't get the test to pass,
you can just jump into the next branch and
continue on with us.
So that way,
you don't get left behind at all.
I don't think the programming is
honestly as important as just going over
the topics, going through the motions and
doing these, and
going through like the reasoning
of why we're gonna do something.
Cuz at the end of the day, I'm sure all of
you are great programmers or good enough,
and you will be able to do
these changes by yourself.
It's really the reasoning
that's more important.
So if you fall behind, that's okay.
Jump on another branch.
It's okay.